Architecture doc (#612)
ansys/pymechanical: doc/source/architecture.rst

.. _ref_architecture:

=========================
PyMechanical Architecture
=========================

PyMechanical is a Python interface to the Mechanical application. Mechanical
is a polyglot [#f1]_ desktop application whose graphical user interface (GUI)
can run on both Windows and Linux.

For several years now, Mechanical has had Python scripting capabilities using
a scripting API. Like many other applications developed by Ansys, scripting
became heavily used for the purpose of *automation*. A user who  would spend
time doing the same thing over and over again with the GUI could instead write
a script to do the same thing, saving time and effort.

> 

Reviewer: To improve efficiency, Mechanical currently enables you to use Python API capabilities to automate repetitive processes.

Also like many other applications, Mechanical's API served another purpose.
That is, it was used for *customization*. Users could use the API as a way to
add capabilities to Mechanical. It has been used to add buttons to the User
Interface, add custom objects to the data model, even as far as adding
third-party solvers that can take advantage of the powerful and intuitive pre-
and post-processing capabilities of Mechanical.

> 

Reviewer: You can also use APIs to customize your workflows by creating customized options, objects, as well as to incorporate third-party solvers in order to enhance pre- and post-processing capabilities.

.. _ref_architecture:

> =========================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> PyMechanical Architecture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyMechanical architecture
```

Within Mechanical, Python scripting enables you to automate repetitive GUI
actions. This is not unlike other applications developed either by Ansys or
other software companies. Python scripting leverages the Mechanical API.

Mechanical, like some other applications, is customizable. Using the same
Mechanical API that you use for scripting, you can implement extensions that
add to the capabilities of Mechanical. For example, buttons can be added to the
GUI and custom objects can be added to the data model. Even third-party or
in-house solvers can be integrated into Mechanical and can take advantage of
the powerful meshing, generic CAD reader, and the intuitive pre- and post-
processing experience of Mechanical.

Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, a design pattern known
as the "Command Pattern" is discussed. This is an abstract pattern that can be
used in any object oriented system in many programming languages. A high level
explanation of the pattern (using the Java programming language) can be found
here: https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/.
A brief explanation follows.

Command pattern

> ---------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---------------

```

and redo by storing an 'inverse' function within the Command and storing a
stack of executed commands. Undo/Redo is then implemented by walking up and
down the stack and executing the Command or its inverse function.

More relevant to this discussion is how command patterns can be used to
implement automation APIs. If every user action is a Command, then that Command
can serve as an API. In this way, everything the user does can be trivially
recorded as textual representations of those Commands. These can then be
replayed using a scripting language supported by the application. In fact, this
exact command pattern is how the Ansys Electronics Desktop, Ansys Mechanical
APDL, and the Ansys Workbench applications implement automation APIs for
scripting.

Using the command pattern as a scripting API does come with some disadvantages.
Most importantly, command APIs are not symmetric. The four fundamental
operations on data within a software application are Create, Read, Update, and
Delete. These are often abbreviated as CRUD. While you can conceptually Update,
Create, and Delete using Commands, you can not Read. This makes it difficult to
"visit" the application's data model.

> Mechanical API Implementation
> -----------------------------
> Mechanical's API serves the needs of both *automation* and *customization*. For

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mechanical API implementation
-----------------------------

Mechanical's API serves the needs of both *automation* and *customization*. For
```

customization, it is necessary to Read the data model. Automation alone is not
sufficient. For example, when integrating a third-party solver, you will need
to access all of the boundary conditions, geometry, material properties, mesh,
and connections to properly input them to the solver. As discussed above, the
command pattern does not allow this kind of access pattern. Due to this fact,
the Mechanical API exposes its data model directly to the user. This is how a
hypothetical command-based API would look for renaming an object.

.. code:: python

    RenameCommand(Id=100, Name="New name")

Instead, an API based on a data model, like mechanical, looks like this:

.. code:: python

    obj = DataModel.GetObjectById(100)
    print(obj.Name)
    obj.Name = "New name"

Notice that the old name could be printed by accessing a property of the
object. This has no equivalent if the API used a command pattern.

> PyMechanical Remote Interface
> -----------------------------
> One way to interfact with the Mechanical API from CPython is as a Remote

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyMechanical remote interface
-----------------------------

One way to interact with the Mechanical API from CPython is as a Remote
```

Session. A session of Mechanical runs as a server and can receive a Remote
Procedure Call (RPC). The RPC is handled by the server and then the response
is returned back to the client.

> PyMechanical Embeddeded Instance
> --------------------------------
> The embedded instance used by PyMechanical embeds an entire instance of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyMechanical embedded instance
--------------------------------

The embedded instance used by PyMechanical embeds an entire instance of the
```

Mechanical application in-memory inside of a CPython program. There is no
additional running process associated with it. Here, only the CPython interface
to the Mechanical API can be used.

> ===================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Distributed Systems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Distributed systems
```

necessary to understand the choices made by PyMechanical.

The term Distributed System is used to describe a software system that uses
a network to distribute software across multiple physical machines. With a
Distributed System, the individual pieces of that system do not share an
address space, and therefore cannot call functions of each other directly.
Instead, they communicate with each other by sending messages in packets.

There are unique characteristics of distributed systems relative to classical
software systems that share an address space. For instance, in a distributed
system, any call can fail because of a problem with the network, and the caller
can not always know whether a call has failed. For this reason, features of
interest to distributed system designers such as fault tolerance and
idempotency are not necessarily important in classical software systems.

These systems are used by email, multiplayer games, web applications, and high
performance computing, among other things. Historically, there are three major
categories of remote APIs, Message passing, resource-based, and Remote Method
Invocation.

Message passing

> ---------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---------------

```

Message passing is the original model of remote APIs, and in fact the other two
are implemented using message passing underneath. RPCs are initiated by the
client and sent to the server as a message, or a sequence of bytes. There must
be some understanding on both sides of the channel as to what information is in
these bytes. This is usually handled by a protocol (such as HTTP or TCP) and
usually also a higher level library (such as gRPC or zeroMQ) implemented using
the protocol. The server may send back a series of messages to the client to

> indicate that a message was recieved, that it is executing, that it has

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
indicate that a message was received, that it is executing, that it has
```

executed, and with a response, if any. The protocol and library determine the
expected sequence of messages, their ordering, and any failure handling.

Resource-based APIs

> -------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-------------------

```

Resource-based APIs were popularized by REST, and has been shown to be, for
practical purposes, infinitely scalable. They are traditionally implemented
using HTTP or HTTPS but implementations can exist in any transport protocol.

The fundamental concept behind REST is the separation of verbs and resources.
Verbs include GET, PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, and POST, while resources are any
uniquely identifiable entity.

REST can scale because servers can make assumptions about the data it serves
based on the verb and resource. For instance, if a GET was done on the resource
"/a/b/c", and then no mutating verbs (PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, POST) have been run
on that or any child resource (such as "/a/b/c/d"), the server can reuse the
result of the previous request rather than recompute the result. When using the
HTTP protocol, this is called HTTP caching and is a fundamental property of the
internet.

Remote method invocation

> ------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
------------------------

```

In the 1990s, OOP exploded in popularity. With it, came a very tempting idea.
OOP allows programmers to provide abstractions on top of data in their code.
It was thought that even the difference between RPC calls and calls made in

> a program's addresss space could be abstracted. The user of the library does

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a program's address space could be abstracted. The user of the library does
```

not need to know whether an object exists remotely or locally, the call can
just be made in the same way, and to scale the system to be distributed over a
network, some middleware would be responsible for load-balancing and allocating
these objects remotely.

> This technique is known as Rmeote Method Invocation (RMI). RMI was widely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This technique is known as Remote Method Invocation (RMI). RMI was widely
```

implemented, using CORBA, DCOM, Remoting (.NET), and Java RMI. However, this
approach has fallen out of favor with the rise of the internet, as it was
observed that this paradigm does not scale. As a practical example, recent
versions of .NET do not implement the Remoting library, and COM/DCOM are not
used in modern web stacks.

An illuminating discussion of the problems with RMI can be found at
https://martinfowler.com/articles/distributed-objects-microservices.html

> 
> =================
> Remote Mechanical
> =================
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Remote mechanical
=================

```

Mechanical's official API is that of an object model, and PyMechanical provides
exactly that API to Python. Because Object Models are not suitable as remote
APIs, PyMechanical does not provide that API in a remote fashion. This is why
the remote session API is based on strings, while the embedded instance API can
provide the Mechanical API directly to Python.

> Another Remote API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another remote API
```

------------------

> Amother remote API for Mechanical is definitely possible to provide, so long as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Another remote API for Mechanical is definitely possible to provide, so long as
```

polyglot [#f1]_ desktop application whose graphical user interface (GUI) runs
on either the Windows or Linux operating system. Mechanical's APIs are
implemented in C# using .NET Framework 4.x. They are exposed to both C# and
two implementations [#f2]_ of Python, IronPython [#f3]_ and CPython.

Within Mechanical, Python scripting enables you to automate repetitive GUI
actions. This is not unlike other applications developed either by Ansys or
other software companies. Python scripting leverages the Mechanical API.

Mechanical, like some other applications, is customizable. Using the same
Mechanical API that you use for scripting, you can implement extensions that
add to the capabilities of Mechanical. For example, buttons can be added to the
GUI and custom objects can be added to the data model. Even third-party or
in-house solvers can be integrated into Mechanical and can take advantage of
the powerful meshing, generic CAD reader, and the intuitive pre- and post-
processing experience of Mechanical.

Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, a design pattern known
as the "Command Pattern" is discussed. This is an abstract pattern that can be

> used in any object oriented system in many programming languages. A high level

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
used in any object-oriented system in many programming languages. A high-level
```

> Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, a design pattern known
> as the "Command Pattern" is discussed. This is an abstract pattern that can be
> used in any object oriented system in many programming languages. A high level
> explanation of the pattern (using the Java programming language) can be found
> here: https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, the *command pattern* is
described. You can use this behavior design pattern to abstract business logic into
discrete actions in any object-oriented system in many programming languages. For
a high-level explanation for using the command pattern in Java, see `Command Design Pattern
 <https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/> in the
 *HowToDoInJava* newsletter.
```
I basically incorporated Sean's suggested changes. I also changed the "see here"--which the Goggle dev doc style guide and basically all style guides says is a no-no. You always want to use descriptive link text that explains to the user where the link will take them.

A brief explanation follows.

> 

Reviewer: Before discussing how to implement Mechanical's API, we need to examine a design pattern known as the "Command Pattern." You can use the Command Pattern in any object-oriented system and with a variety of programming languages. See the following for a general description of Command Pattern using the Java programming language: https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/.

Command pattern

> ---------------

Reviewer: Command pattern in Mechanical (PyMechanical?)

> Many interactive applications use the Command pattern. In a nutshell, anything
> the user does within the application turns into a Command object, and then the
> Command object is immediately executed. This approach carries some benefits.
> For example, applications that work in this way can choose to implement undo
> and redo by storing an 'inverse' function within the Command and storing a
> stack of executed commands. Undo/Redo is then implemented by walking up and
> down the stack and executing the Command or its inverse function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many interactive applications use the command pattern. It turns anything that 
the user does within the application into a command object, which is immediately
executed. This approach carries some benefits.
For example, applications that work in this way can choose to implement undo
and redo by storing an 'inverse' function within the command and storing a
stack of executed commands. The undo or redo is then implemented by walking up and
down the stack and executing the command or its inverse function.
```

> More relevant to this discussion is how command patterns can be used to
> implement automation APIs. If every user action is a Command, then that Command
> can serve as an API. In this way, everything the user does can be trivially
> recorded as textual representations of those Commands. These can then be
> replayed using a scripting language supported by the application. In fact, this
> exact command pattern is how the Ansys Electronics Desktop, Ansys Mechanical
> APDL, and the Ansys Workbench applications implement automation APIs for
> scripting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More relevant to this discussion is how command patterns can be used to
implement automation APIs. If every user action is a command, then that command
can serve as an API. In this way, everything the user does can be trivially
recorded as textual representations of those commands. These can then be
replayed using a scripting language supported by the application. In fact, this
exact command pattern is how the Ansys Electronics Desktop (AEDT), Ansys Mechanical
APDL, and the Ansys Workbench applications implement automation APIs for
scripting.
```
I've let the "user" here because I think Mohamed wants to distinguish here between a user versus a developer. In general, we do want to use "you" rather than user, but I'll let Mohamed decide here based on his intent.

> 

Reviewer: For our purposes, let’s discuss how you use command patterns to implement automation APIs. If every user action is a Command, then that Command can serve as an API. As a result, everything you do can be trivially recorded as textual representations of those Commands and then replayed using a scripting language supported by the application. In fact, this exact command pattern is how the Ansys Electronics Desktop, Ansys Mechanical APDL, and the Ansys Workbench applications implement automation APIs for scripting.

Reviewer 3: @sbradrick The Google style guide says not to use "our" or "we".

Using the command pattern as a scripting API does come with some disadvantages.
Most importantly, command APIs are not symmetric. The four fundamental

> operations on data within a software application are Create, Read, Update, and
> Delete. These are often abbreviated as CRUD. While you can conceptually Update,
> Create, and Delete using Commands, you can not Read. This makes it difficult to
> "visit" the application's data model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
operations on data within a software application are ``Create``, ``Read``, ``Update``, and
``Delete``. These are often abbreviated as CRUD. While you can conceptually update,
create, and delete using commands, you cannot read using a command. This makes it
difficult to "visit" the application's data model.
```
I prefer what Mohamed has written because it is presented in simple, short sentences, which is the goal. I tagged the actual operations as code entities.

Mechanical API implementation
-----------------------------

Mechanical's API serves the needs of both *automation* and *customization*. For
customization, it is necessary to Read the data model. Automation alone is not
sufficient. For example, when integrating a third-party solver, you will need

> to access all of the boundary conditions, geometry, material properties, mesh,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
access all of the boundary conditions, geometry, material properties, mesh,
```

> and connections to properly input them to the solver. As discussed above, the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and connections to properly input them to the solver. As discussed earlier, the
```
I'm surprised Vale didn't flag this with a warning. The guidelines say to use positions (above and below) in regard to content on the page.

> command pattern does not allow this kind of access pattern. Due to this fact,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
command pattern does not allow this kind of access. Due to this fact,
```

the Mechanical API exposes its data model directly to the user. This is how a
hypothetical command-based API would look for renaming an object.

> 

Reviewer: Mechanical's API serves the needs of both *automation* and *customization*. However, for customization, it is necessary to Read the data model. Automation alone is not sufficient. For example, when integrating a third-party solver, you will need to access all of the boundary conditions, geometry, material properties, mesh, and connections to properly input them to the solver. And as discussed above, the command pattern does not support this type of access pattern. As a result, the Mechanical API exposes its data model directly. This is how a hypothetical command-based API would look for renaming an object.

.. code:: python

    RenameCommand(Id=100, Name="New name")

> Instead, an API based on a data model, like mechanical, looks like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead, an API based on a data model, like Mechanical, looks like this:
```
I think this content is fine, except for the need to capitalize Mechanical.

.. code:: python

    obj = DataModel.GetObjectById(100)
    print(obj.Name)
    obj.Name = "New name"

Notice that the old name could be printed by accessing a property of the

> object. This has no equivalent if the API used a command pattern.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
object. However, there is no equivalent if the API uses a command pattern.
```
Partial incorporation of Sean's suggestion.

> 

Reviewer: Using this form, you can print the old name by accessing a property of the object. However, there is no equivalent if the API uses a command pattern.

PyMechanical remote interface
-----------------------------

One way to interact with the Mechanical API from CPython is as a Remote
Session. A session of Mechanical runs as a server and can receive a Remote
Procedure Call (RPC). The RPC is handled by the server and then the response

> is returned back to the client.

Author: @PipKat  I have  habit of doing Some Term of Art (STA) rather than STA (Some Term of Art).

I see that you prefer the latter - is that a personal preference or recommended by our style guide?

> is returned back to the client.

Reviewer 3: @koubaa My being wishy-washy on this is because the Google developer's doc style guide does say to use the first way:

    In general, when an abbreviation is likely to be unfamiliar to the audience, spell out the first 
    mention of the term and immediately follow with the abbreviation in parentheses, as in the 
    following examples:

    Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
    elliptic-curve cryptography (ECC)

However, the trend in lots of Ansys materials and the materials that I see from lots of companies is to use the second way:

BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)
ECC (elliptic-curve cryptography)

At this point, within any particular document, I shoot for consistency. I'm OK with whichever your prefer.

PyMechanical embedded instance
--------------------------------

The embedded instance used by PyMechanical embeds an entire instance of the
Mechanical application in-memory inside of a CPython program. There is no
additional running process associated with it. Here, only the CPython interface
to the Mechanical API can be used.

Distributed systems
===================

> This section contains a very basic explanation of Distributed Systems. It is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section contains a very basic explanation of distributed systems. It is
```

> not meant be exhaustive and rigorous, but instead introduces just the topics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not meant be exhaustive and rigorous, but it instead introduces just the topics
```

necessary to understand the choices made by PyMechanical.

> The term Distributed System is used to describe a software system that uses
> a network to distribute software across multiple physical machines. With a
> Distributed System, the individual pieces of that system do not share an
> address space, and therefore cannot call functions of each other directly.
> Instead, they communicate with each other by sending messages in packets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A distributed system is the term for describing a software system that uses
a network to distribute software across multiple physical machines. With a
distributed system, the individual pieces of that system do not share an
address space and therefore cannot call functions of each other directly.
Instead, they communicate with each other by sending messages in packets.
```

There are unique characteristics of distributed systems relative to classical
software systems that share an address space. For instance, in a distributed
system, any call can fail because of a problem with the network, and the caller
can not always know whether a call has failed. For this reason, features of

> interest to distributed system designers such as fault tolerance and
> idempotency are not necessarily important in classical software systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
interest to distributed system designers, such as fault tolerance and
idempotency, are not necessarily important in classical software systems.
```
You will want to add "idempotency" to Vale's accept.txt file.

> 

Reviewer: This section provides a basic explanation of Distributed Systems. It introduces the topics necessary to understand the choices you will make in PyMechanical.
A Distributed System is a software system that uses a network to distribute the software across multiple physical machines. The individual machines of this system do not share an address space and therefore cannot call functions from each other directly. They instead communicate by sending messages in packets.
This type of system has unique characteristics compared to traditional software systems that share an address space. For instance, in a distributed system, any call can fail because of a problem with the network, and the caller may not know if the call has failed. Therefore, features of interest to distributed system designers, such as fault tolerance and idempotency, are not necessarily important in traditional software systems.

> These systems are used by email, multiplayer games, web applications, and high
> performance computing, among other things. Historically, there are three major

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These systems are used by email, multiplayer games, web applications, and
high-performance computing, among other things. Historically, there are three major
```

> categories of remote APIs, Message passing, resource-based, and Remote Method
> Invocation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
categories of remote APIs: message-passing, resource-based, and remote method
invocation.
```

> 

Reviewer: Examples of Distributed systems include email servers, web applications, and high-performance computing. Historically, there are three major categories of remote APIs, Message passing, resource-based, and Remote Method Invocation.

> Message passing
> ---------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Message-passing APIs
------------------------_
```

> Message passing is the original model of remote APIs, and in fact the other two

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Message passing is the original model of remote APIs, and in fact the other two categories
```

are implemented using message passing underneath. RPCs are initiated by the
client and sent to the server as a message, or a sequence of bytes. There must
be some understanding on both sides of the channel as to what information is in
these bytes. This is usually handled by a protocol (such as HTTP or TCP) and

> usually also a higher level library (such as gRPC or zeroMQ) implemented using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
usually also a higher-level library (such as gRPC or zeroMQ) implemented using
```

the protocol. The server may send back a series of messages to the client to
indicate that a message was received, that it is executing, that it has
executed, and with a response, if any. The protocol and library determine the
expected sequence of messages, their ordering, and any failure handling.

> 

Reviewer: The client initiates and sends Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs) to a server as a message or as a sequence of bytes. Each side of the transmission must be able to decode the information contained in the bytes. Typically, a protocol, such as HTTP or TCP, manages this communication in combination with a higher-level library, such as gRPC or zeroMQ. Therefore, when the server returns a series of messages to the client to indicate receipt, execution, completion, as well as a potential response, the protocol and library determine the expected sequence of messages, their order, and any failure handling.

Resource-based APIs
-------------------

Resource-based APIs were popularized by REST, and has been shown to be, for
practical purposes, infinitely scalable. They are traditionally implemented

> using HTTP or HTTPS but implementations can exist in any transport protocol.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
using HTTP or HTTPS, but implementations can exist in any transport protocol.
```

The fundamental concept behind REST is the separation of verbs and resources.
Verbs include GET, PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, and POST, while resources are any
uniquely identifiable entity.

REST can scale because servers can make assumptions about the data it serves

> based on the verb and resource. For instance, if a GET was done on the resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
based on the verb and resource. For instance, if a ``GET`` is done on the resource
```

> "/a/b/c", and then no mutating verbs (PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, POST) have been run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"/a/b/c", and then no mutating verbs (PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, POST) are run
```

Author: This isn't code, its a URI (uniform resource identifier). They are commonly expressed as strings. A subset or URIs are URLs, like the one pointing to this pull request

Reviewer 3: We also tag URLs and file and directory names as code entities.

on that or any child resource (such as "/a/b/c/d"), the server can reuse the
result of the previous request rather than recompute the result. When using the
HTTP protocol, this is called HTTP caching and is a fundamental property of the
internet.

Remote method invocation

> ------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Remote method invocation APIs
------------------------------------

> In the 1990s, OOP exploded in popularity. With it, came a very tempting idea.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the 1990s, OOP (object-oriented programming) exploded in popularity.
With it, came a very tempting idea.
```

OOP allows programmers to provide abstractions on top of data in their code.

> It was thought that even the difference between RPC calls and calls made in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It was thought that even the difference between RPCs and calls made in
```

a program's address space could be abstracted. The user of the library does

> not need to know whether an object exists remotely or locally, the call can
> just be made in the same way, and to scale the system to be distributed over a
> network, some middleware would be responsible for load-balancing and allocating

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not need to know whether an object exists remotely or locally. The call could
be made in the same way, regardless. To scale the system to be distributed over a
network, some middleware would be responsible for load-balancing and allocating
```

these objects remotely.

This technique is known as Remote Method Invocation (RMI). RMI was widely
implemented, using CORBA, DCOM, Remoting (.NET), and Java RMI. However, this
approach has fallen out of favor with the rise of the internet, as it was
observed that this paradigm does not scale. As a practical example, recent

> versions of .NET do not implement the Remoting library, and COM/DCOM are not

Reviewer 3: I assume "Remoting library" is a proper name?

Author: yes, Remoting refers to this: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.NET_Remoting

used in modern web stacks.

> An illuminating discussion of the problems with RMI can be found at
> https://martinfowler.com/articles/distributed-objects-microservices.html

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For an illuminating discussion of the problems with RMI, see
`Microservices and the First Law of Distributed Objects <https://martinfowler.com/articles/distributed-objects-microservices.html>`_  on Martin Fowler's website.
```
You will likely have to add both "Martin" and "Fowler" to Vale's accept.txt file.

> 

Reviewer: The advent of OOP enabled programmers to provide abstraction on top of data in their code. They could hide the message-passing of the network, that is, the messages between RPC calls and calls made in a program's address space. Using this configuration, the user of the library does not need to know whether an object exists remotely or locally. This includes the call. Additionally, you can distribute the system over a network and use a middleware application to manage the necessary load-balancing and allocation of these objects remotely. Known as Remote Method Invocation (RMI), developers implemented this technique using CORBA, DCOM, Remoting (.NET), and Java RMI.
Unfortunately, based on scalability limitations, the favorability of RMI has waned. Recent versions of .NET do not implement the Remoting library, and modern web stacks  do not use COM/DCOM.
This article discusses the problems associated with RMI: https://martinfowler.com/articles/distributed-objects-microservices.html.

Remote mechanical
=================

Mechanical's official API is that of an object model, and PyMechanical provides

> exactly that API to Python. Because Object Models are not suitable as remote

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
exactly that API to Python. Because object models are not suitable as remote
```

APIs, PyMechanical does not provide that API in a remote fashion. This is why
the remote session API is based on strings, while the embedded instance API can
provide the Mechanical API directly to Python.

Another remote API
------------------

Another remote API for Mechanical is definitely possible to provide, so long as
it is based on message passing or REST. In fact, Mechanical uses a REST API
internally as part of its GUI. This is not the official Mechanical API and is

> not currently documented. But such an API is not an immediate goal of the
> PyMechanical project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not currently documented because such an API is not an immediate goal of the
PyMechanical project.
```

> 

Reviewer: Mechanical's official API is that of an Object Model. PyMechanical provides this API to Python. However, because Object Models are not suitable as remote APIs, PyMechanical does not provide that API remotely. This is why the remote session API is based on strings, while the embedded instance API can provide the Mechanical API directly to Python.
Another remote API for Mechanical is possible as long as it is based on message passing or REST. Mechanical uses a REST API internally as part of its GUI. However, this is not the official Mechanical API and is not currently documented and such an API is not an immediate goal of the PyMechanical project.

Using PyMechanical in a distributed system
------------------------------------------
It is still possible to build a distributed system where Mechanical is run
remotely using the embedded instance of Mechanical in PyMechanical. For this to
work, Python itself would run remotely, and therefore the embedded instance
would run remotely. The communication across the network in that system would
be done in Python.

> 

Reviewer: You can build a distributed system to run the application remotely by running Python remotely when it includes an embedded instance of the application. All network communication is performed in Python.

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] This means that it is implemented using more than one programming language.
.. [#f2] The Python programming language is in fact only a specification of a language. CPython is the reference implementation developed by the creator of Python. There are others, including IronPython, PyPy, Cinder, and GraalPy.

> .. [#f3] IronPython is an implementation of the Python programming language using the DLR from .NET. It does not implement the Python/C API, which is why many python packages can not run within IronPython. It also currently only implements Python2.7.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. [#f3] IronPython is an implementation of the Python programming language using the DLR from .NET. It does not implement the Python/C API, which is why many Python packages cannot run within IronPython. It also currently only implements Python2.7.
```

actions. This is not unlike other apps developed either by Ansys or other
software companies. Python scripting leverages the Mechanical API.

Mechanical, like some other apps, is customizable. Using the same API that you
would use for scripting, you can implement extensions that add to the
capabilities of Mechanical. For example, buttons can be added to the GUI and
custom objects can be added to the data model. Even third-party or in-house
solvers can be integrated into Mechanical and can take advantage of the
powerful meshing, generic CAD reader, and the intuitive pre- and post-
processing experience of Mechanical.

Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, we discuss a software
design pattern known as the *command pattern*. This pattern can be used in many
programming languages. For a general description (using the Java programming
language) of the command pattern, see `Command Design Pattern
<https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/>` in the
*HowToDoInJava* newsletter`. Our own brief explanation follows.

Command pattern
---------------

Many interactive apps use the command pattern. It turns anything that the user

> does within the app turns into a command object, which is immediately executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
does within the app into a command object, which is immediately executed.
```

necessary to understand the choices made by the designers of PyMechanical.

A distributed system is a software system that uses a network to distribute
software across physical machines. With a distributed system, the individual
pieces of that system do not share an address space and therefore cannot call
functions of each other directly. Instead, they communicate with each other by
sending messages in packets.

Distributed systems have unique characteristics when compared to classical
software systems that share an address space. For instance, in a distributed
system, any call can fail because of a problem with the network, and the caller
can not always know whether a call has failed. For this reason, features of
interest to distributed system designers, such as fault tolerance and
idempotency, are not emphasized by classical software systems.

Examples include email, multiplayer games, web apps, and high-performance
computing, among other things. Historically, there are three major categories
of remote APIs: message passing, resource based, and remote method invocation.

Message passing
---------------

> Message passing is the original model of remote APIs, and in fact the other two

Reviewer 4: what other two categories? Resource-based and remote method invocation APIs?

Reviewer 3: Kerry's confusion here is why I relates back to here: categories of remote APIs: message-passing, resource-based, and remote method invocation.

It's basically why I suggested that the following section be named as follows:
Message-passing APIs
Resource-based APIs
Remote Method Invocation APIs

If we define Remote Method Invocation as RMI ealier, we could then RMI APIs to shorten the third heading.

Author: @PipKat @klmcadams I can't call them APIs because they aren't... but I will do my best to rework/clarify it.

Author: @PipKat @klmcadams I overhauled this section. I think its easier to understand, as well as being more acurrate. Let me know what you think.

Within Mechanical, Python scripting enables you to automate repetitive GUI
actions. This is not unlike other apps developed either by Ansys or other
software companies. Python scripting leverages the Mechanical API.

Mechanical, like some other apps, is customizable. Using the same API that you
would use for scripting, you can implement extensions that add to the
capabilities of Mechanical. For example, buttons can be added to the GUI and
custom objects can be added to the data model. Even third-party or in-house
solvers can be integrated into Mechanical and can take advantage of the
powerful meshing, generic CAD reader, and the intuitive pre- and post-
processing experience of Mechanical.

Before discussing how Mechanical's API is implemented, we discuss a software
design pattern known as the *command pattern*. This pattern can be used in many
programming languages. For a general description (using the Java programming
language) of the command pattern, see `Command Design Pattern
<https://howtodoinjava.com/design-patterns/behavioral/command-pattern/>` in the
*HowToDoInJava* newsletter. Our own brief explanation follows.

Command pattern
---------------

> Many interactive apps use the command pattern. It turns anything that the user

Reviewer: ...anything that you do within the app into a command object...

command-based API can not provide the same experience.

PyMechanical remote interface
-----------------------------

One way to interact with the Mechanical API from Python is as a remote session.
You can run Mechanical as a server and send a *Remote Procedure Call* (RPC).
The server handles the RPC and returns the response to the client. Currently,
sending commands as a string and getting the result as a string is the only
option.

PyMechanical embedded instance
--------------------------------

The embedded instance used by PyMechanical embeds an entire instance of the
Mechanical app in-memory inside of a Python program. There is no additional
running process associated with it. Mechanical's data model is directly
available within Python, which means that the fully CRUD data model of the
mechanical API can be used.

Distributed systems
===================

This section contains a very basic explanation of *distributed systems*. It is
not meant be exhaustive and rigorous, but it instead introduces just the topics
necessary as simply as possible to help you understand the choices made by the
designers of PyMechanical.

> 

Reviewer: This section contains a very basic explanation of *distributed systems*. It is not meant to be an exhaustive explanation, but rather an introduction to only the topics necessary to help you understand the choices made by the designers of PyMechanical.

Distributed systems have unique characteristics when compared to classical
software systems that share an address space. For instance, in a distributed
system, any call can fail because of a problem with the network, and the caller
can not always know whether a call has failed. For this reason, features of
interest to distributed system designers, such as fault tolerance, redundancy,
and idempotency, are not emphasized by classical software systems.

In a distributed system, any computer can theoretically talk to any other
computer. However, it is useful to divide them conceptually into clients and
servers. Clients send requests to servers. Servers are expected return a
response to the client.

There are protocols [#f5]_ that describe how information moves between
computers. We begin with an explanation of remote procedure calls.

Remote procedure calls
----------------------

When one computer invokes a procedure on another computer using a network, it
is said to have done an RPC. Unlike a normal procedure call, it can be
unreliable and orders of magnitude slower. There also needs to be a handshake
so that both sides understand how to interpret the bytes that move on the wire

> between computers [#f6]_. This handshake can be negotiated byte-per-byte, but

Reviewer: bytes that move between computers

in practice, the internet protocols provide useful conventions and standards
that have been tried and tested.

While standards are useful, it is not practical for every developer to craft
packets to send over the wire by hand. Around the most popular conventions of
the internet protocols are libraries and tooling in popular programming
languages. These libraries and tooling can be opinionated in how RPCs can and
should be written. Some offer low-level method invocation facilities, like gRPC
and zeroMQ. Others take a view on how RPCs should be done. Two such views are
*Representational State Transfer* (REST) and *Remote Method Invocation* (RMI).

> 

Reviewer: However, libraries and tooling can be opinionated (? Have requirements about?) in how RPCs can and should be written. Some offer low-level method invocation facilities, like gRPC and zeroMQ. Others take a view on how RPCs should be done (such as?). Two such views are *Representational State Transfer* (REST) and *Remote Method Invocation* (RMI).

REST
----

The design principles of REST are often credited as being responsible for the
infinite scalability of the internet. It can be thought of as a set of styles
or constraints that most web apps comply with or at least try to. Since REST
is not an official standard, it can be implemented on any protocol. Since it
was designed for HTTP, it is usually associated with it and its direct
descendants [#f7]_. However, the principles of REST can be applied on any
protocol.

Applications that conform to REST are said to provide RESTful APIs. For a more
detailed description, see `What is a REST API
<https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api>` on the *Red Hat
Technology Topics* page.

Remote method invocation
------------------------

In the nineties, *Object Oriented Programming* (OOP) exploded in popularity.

> Among other things, OOP allows programmers to add abstractions on top of data

Reviewer: enabled programmers
